we need something to do a video about
today
oh that won't be it
no we still have this thing
this is the 64 core
computer and after
all the testing we did on it we never
actually gamed on it
can you run games on a 64 core
cpu that was built for science we're
gonna find
out for science
[Music]
thanks to world of warships for
sponsoring this video world of warships
is the free online strategy warship game
from war gaming
stay tuned for more and an exclusive
offer later on in this video
so if you think about it one eternity
later maybe this idea isn't that crazy
you know gaming on a 64 core cpu because
believe it or not the cpu
that's in here is actually fundamentally
the same thing as that intel
graphics card prototype that we did like
an unboxing and history lesson of
a little while ago except that instead
of being
on a pci express card they've got like a
whole motherboard and
like cpu socket and like exterior memory
slots kind of thing going on for it
so first things first we've got to get
this puppy
somewhat reassembled there's a hard
drive in here for some reason
uh we've also got to put some more ram
in we need to make sure we are running
it at its
optimal six channels of memory
we need to chuck a boot ssd in here so
if i
pull out all of these ancient technology
hard drive cages you can kind of see
where we jammed that in and then last
but not least
we are going to need a graphics card
because
unfortunately the software development
that would have made larabee
a general purpose processor that could
run
directx code um was
never completed so we're going to start
with a gtx 1060
like a high mid-range card
just to see if this is feasible at all
before we move on to something
a little bit beefier and investigate how
much if any bottlenecking occurs
because what you guys got to understand
about gaming
on a you know heavily threaded
multi-core
chip is that most games at
best are running with like four
processing threads and even in those
cases
it's primarily single or maybe dual
threaded
with the other cores doing like little
supplementary work
you know i had actually been meaning to
do this video
as a precursor to the like
proper review like as like a teaser like
goofing around with it first and then
doing the proper video
so yeah best laid plans of
mice and men and no comments on which
one i am
all right so trick number one is that we
have to run windows server rather than
regular windows 10 and the reason for
that
is that otherwise all 250
of our logical course will not get
recognized like look at this
what it can't even it just
it actually can't even they're just all
percent signs
brilliant like beyond dumb but anyway
that's not a problem because
as we demonstrated in this video there's
no difference in performance between the
different
editions of windows they're all based on
the same kernel so it just comes down to
the feature set so all our hardware is
detected
we've got the same geforce drivers that
we would on the desktop
and it is time to fire uh
let's go let's start with let's start
with csgo
is it just me or is this steam update
taking a little longer than usual
you didn't install chrome on this thing
this thing is taking
forever and like the stupid thing is
that
it shows only 1.9 cpu usage but like
but but think about that of 256
threads each one percent would be
only two of them which would be half
of one cpu core am i getting this right
ish so
so does that just mean it's single
threaded and it's relying on
one of our 64 cores
because you gotta understand not all
cores are created equally
and these ones are not high performance
we've got chrongo though i mean i
clicked play a little while ago but
uh maybe it didn't take oh maybe it
legitimately didn't take okay
there we go this isn't so bad
okay there we go and remember friends
this is launching on an ssd
imagine it with a hard drive
hey all right
let's pawn some noobs
oh wow okay no no there we go hey there
we go
all right so we're not gonna ask too
much from this thing we're just gonna
run it at 1080.
i mean the good news is that uh running
that local game server
could be offloaded to another core yeah
how long does it take to connect to a
server
that is running on the same box
oh wow oh wow there bud
oh boy
oh bought chris is a little better
okay okay let's get let's get let's get
our ak game on here
oh i see baddies oh open up hey
get get get get out of the way sean oh
look at the way those
smoke effects just destroy me oh i got
two
i am better like this than i am with a
proper
computer no hold them down
oh dang
i think you're messing with me right now
in its defense
this is the lowest end zeon 5 from this
generation
but it is still an eighteen hundred
dollar processor
let's try deus ex mankind divided i
clicked that already by the way
ouch
anthony i'm not going to bother putting
the titan b in this thing
yeah really this is ridiculous but i had
to go through it
yeah well i'm sorry man but i'm
this isn't even running in real time
anymore
like this benchmark this run is actually
going to take
longer like the physics of the game are
broken
wow oh
oh oh
no i think this may be
one of the most exceptional
bottlenecks that i have ever seen
which come to think of it would actually
be a very interesting video
we should give that some thought
remarkably we're managing to get screen
tearing that's pretty cool
well i think
those numbers basically say everything
there is to say
minimum of 0.5 frames per second
ouch all right let it never be said
that i'm not a sucker for
[Music]
punishment one more game let's play
fortnite on this sucker
like do you think i could just take a
nap on this table
like oh oh
let me know when the loading bar reaches
the top of my head
you know how they say a watched pot
never boils i've got a new expression
for them
this computer never loads anything
i don't know if it's going to catch on
oh no
oh no no no no oh
no okay wait
no i have no time to talk about your new
update stuff
what no remind me later what was that
uh boom let's do it
uh yeah i already yeah okay
play people like me are the reason that
you
need that loading area for a minute
before the match starts
oh yeah look at this the bus
launched 10 seconds after i got into the
game
if i was any slower i would miss the bus
wow it's really interesting seeing an
online game try to struggle
with how slow this system is because
when you're playing online you don't
have the option
of just slowing down the physics of the
game
so i would be curious to know if i am
teleporting all over the freaking place
for fps okay so
the point of these processors obviously
isn't gaming and they're expensive
because what they're useful for
is scientific workloads like tensorflow
or neural networking for example and
actually in most cases
these processors do end up getting
installed
in pci express cards like our larabee
prototype
except without any display outputs
because they're not intended to be used
for any kind of graphics application
especially not like gaming directly off
it
as a card but this was definitely
a fun experiment in
showing just how bad
your experience can be with expensive
hardware
if it's not the right kind and it's not
optimized
for the workload that you are trying to
perform
now to be clear not every xeon is bad
for gaming
this is a common misconception it's bad
for gaming it comes down to the
architecture of the chip this is xeon
phi
this is fundamentally different from a
normal xeon
which is usually pretty similar to a
core i7 or core i9
just with fancy ecc memory support
world of warships is a free-to-play
historical online combat game from
wargaming it features a balance of
action
and strategic gameplay and it allows you
to command a massive naval fleet
featuring some of history's most iconic
war vessels including the uss
indianapolis and unlock new ships as you
prepare to dominate the oceans
in world of warships with four classes
of ships a bunch of upgrades
and strategically designed environments
every match plays
a little bit differently and every week
there's something new to experience with
a steady cadence of new missions
game updates and events to keep you
engaged
new players who use code play warships
all caps will get 250 doubloons a
million credits
three days of premium the campbelltown
premium ship and
an additional port slot so go check that
out in the link below
so thanks for watching guys if you
disliked this video you can hit that
button but if you liked it hit like get
subscribed maybe consider checking out
where to buy the stuff we featured
at the link in the video description
also down there is our merch storage has
cool shirts like this one
and our community forum which you should
totally join